README.md, before:

# React-Tailwind-Vitest

This is a template for a React project using TailwindCSS and Vite/Vitest. It also includes `require('@tailwindcss/forms')` in the `tailwind.config.js` file.

## Scripts

- `npm start` - Starts the development server.
- `npm test` - Runs the test suite with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/guide/cli.html#commands). React Testing Library is included along with `@testing-library/user-event`.

See [package.json](./package.json) for more scripts

## Linting and Prettier

This project uses `"standard"` linting with the recommended for `react` and `"prettier"`. This includes recommendations for **rules of hooks** and **a11y.**

It also includes warnings regarding [encapsulating React hooks](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-use-encapsulation).

It also lints `"testing-library"` and `"jest-dom"`.

## VS Code Extensions and Settings

It also includes sensible VS Code defaults for [settings](./.vscode/settings.json) and [extensions](./.vscode/extensions.json).

For the **settings**, we are doing things like:

- `"css.validate": false,` - TailwindCSS uses a lot of custom CSS syntax that VS Code doesn't understand, so we disable validation.
- `"editor.formatOnSave": true,` - We want to format our code on save.
- `"editor.defaultFormatter": "esbenp.prettier-vscode",` - We want to use Prettier to format our code.
- `"editor.codeActionsOnSave": { "source.fixAll.eslint": true },` - We want to use ESLint to fix any linting errors on save.

You should install the recommended extensions when you open the project in VS Code to get the full benefit of these settings.
.

## Architecture

This project uses the following architecture heavily inspired by Tania Rascia's [React Architecture](https://www.taniarascia.com/react-architecture-directory-structure/).

- `src/` - All of our source code.
  - `components/` - All of our React components (`.jsx`). Global shared/reusable components, such as layout (wrappers, navigation), form components, buttons.
  - `hooks/` - All of our custom React hooks (`.js`).
  - `routes/` - All of our React routes (`.jsx`). Each route is a 'page'.
  - `services/` - All of our services (`.js`). Services are responsible for making API calls and returning data, for example (api.js). Or, maybe you have a service that is responsible for managing authentication (auth.js). Or, `localStorage` (storage.js). The stuff in here has consequences, that is, **side effects**.
  - `tests/` - All of our tests (`.test.jsx`).
  - `utils/` - All of our utility functions (`.js`). Utilities, helpers, constants, and the like. Unlike `services`, these are not responsible for side effects.

### Absolute Imports

This project uses absolute imports for all of our files. This means that we can import files from any directory using the `@` prefix instead of relative paths (e.g. `import Button from '@/components/Button'` instead of `import Button from '../../components/Button'`).

This works for any of the directories in `src/` as listed above. If you need to add more, see [`vite.config.js`](./vite.config.js).

### Dependency Graph

`npm run dep-graph`

This project includes `"dependency-cruiser"`. You can generate a dependency graph by running `npm run dep-graph`. This will be in SVG format by default. You can change this in the `package.json` file.

**Note:** You **must** have [Graphviz](https://graphviz.org/download/) installed for this to work. You can install it using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on macOS with `brew install graphviz`.

Here's an example of what the dependency graph looks like:

![Dependency Graph](./dependency-graph.svg)

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)

## Credits

This project was bootstrapped with [create-vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/).

Like it? Give it a ⭐️ on [GitHub](https://github.com/manavm1990/vite-react-tailwind-vitest).

Commit message:

feat: :building_construction: add layouts directory

README.md, after:

# React-Tailwind-Vitest

This is a template for a React project using TailwindCSS and Vite/Vitest. It also includes `require('@tailwindcss/forms')` in the `tailwind.config.js` file.

## Scripts

- `npm start` - Starts the development server.
- `npm test` - Runs the test suite with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/guide/cli.html#commands). React Testing Library is included along with `@testing-library/user-event`.

See [package.json](./package.json) for more scripts

## Linting and Prettier

This project uses `"standard"` linting with the recommended for `react` and `"prettier"`. This includes recommendations for **rules of hooks** and **a11y.**

It also includes warnings regarding [encapsulating React hooks](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-use-encapsulation).

It also lints `"testing-library"` and `"jest-dom"`.

## VS Code Extensions and Settings

It also includes sensible VS Code defaults for [settings](./.vscode/settings.json) and [extensions](./.vscode/extensions.json).

For the **settings**, we are doing things like:

- `"css.validate": false,` - TailwindCSS uses a lot of custom CSS syntax that VS Code doesn't understand, so we disable validation.
- `"editor.formatOnSave": true,` - We want to format our code on save.
- `"editor.defaultFormatter": "esbenp.prettier-vscode",` - We want to use Prettier to format our code.
- `"editor.codeActionsOnSave": { "source.fixAll.eslint": true },` - We want to use ESLint to fix any linting errors on save.

You should install the recommended extensions when you open the project in VS Code to get the full benefit of these settings.
.

## Architecture

This project uses the following architecture heavily inspired by Tania Rascia's [React Architecture](https://www.taniarascia.com/react-architecture-directory-structure/).

- `src/` - All of our source code.
  - `components/` - All of our React components (`.jsx`). Global shared/reusable components, such as layout (wrappers, navigation), form components, buttons.
  - `hooks/` - All of our custom React hooks (`.js`).
  - `layouts/` - These are components that wrap our **routes** and provide consistent page layouts. For example, a layout for a dashboard page might include a sidebar and header. A layout for a login page might not.
  - `routes/` - All of our React routes (`.jsx`). Each route is a 'page'.
  - `services/` - All of our services (`.js`). Services are responsible for making API calls and returning data, for example (api.js). Or, maybe you have a service that is responsible for managing authentication (auth.js). Or, `localStorage` (storage.js). The stuff in here has consequences, that is, **side effects**.
  - `tests/` - All of our tests (`.test.jsx`).
  - `utils/` - All of our utility functions (`.js`). Utilities, helpers, constants, and the like. Unlike `services`, these are not responsible for side effects.

### Absolute Imports

This project uses absolute imports for all of our files. This means that we can import files from any directory using the `@` prefix instead of relative paths (e.g. `import Button from '@/components/Button'` instead of `import Button from '../../components/Button'`).

This works for any of the directories in `src/` as listed above. If you need to add more, see [`vite.config.js`](./vite.config.js).

### Dependency Graph

`npm run dep-graph`

This project includes `"dependency-cruiser"`. You can generate a dependency graph by running `npm run dep-graph`. This will be in SVG format by default. You can change this in the `package.json` file.

**Note:** You **must** have [Graphviz](https://graphviz.org/download/) installed for this to work. You can install it using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on macOS with `brew install graphviz`.

Here's an example of what the dependency graph looks like:

![Dependency Graph](./dependency-graph.svg)

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)

## Credits

This project was bootstrapped with [create-vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/).

Like it? Give it a ⭐️ on [GitHub](https://github.com/manavm1990/vite-react-tailwind-vitest).
